# Fair Use Statement

This project makes use of the subject terms from the _MLA International Bibliography_. The Modern Language Association claims copyright on their metadata.

After careful analysis, I believe that my use of the MLA subject terms is fair. 

1. The intended use of this data is educational. ProjectTRIKE is an open educational resource which presents transformations of datasets in order to emphasize the constructedness of data and to demonstrate the methods by which data becomes analysis. My use of the _MLAIB_ metadata is one of three projects undertaking this work. The dataset I gathered is good for this work because it provides me the opportunity to demonstrate that the data with which I'm working is created by humans (the MLA indexers) and that it comes to us having already undergone multiple transformations.  Additionally, it provides a good example of metadata as data, a useful concept for digital humanities students to understand. My use of these subject terms is transformative because it removes the terms from their original context and purpose as searching aids associated with particular records, and instead looks at a group of terms as a dataset which can be analyzed quantitatively and qualitatively.
2. The works in question are records in the _MLA International Bibliography_. The purpose of these works is to describe the articles published in journals of literary criticism and assist users in locating them. The nature of the works is educational and descriptive. 
3. My use of the records is partial. In one place, I reproduce portions of one record to illustrate the structure of a record in _MLAIB_; this is necessary to introduce students to the vocabulary I'm using, but I edit out the parts of the record that are not needed for this explanation.  Throughout the project, I use only the assigned terms rather than the records themselves; these terms are listed together for each year I examine and cannot easily be associated with particular records unless the student downloads another copy of the records in question from the database. 
4. My use of the _MLAIB_ metadata to analyze journals will have no negative effect on the market for this database.  The database describes literary criticism and facilitates searches for that criticism.  Because the dataset treats the subject terms separately from the records they describe, this dataset cannot perform either of these functions. Students wishing to perform an analysis similar to the one I do in this resource would need to gain access to the database through their institutions, so it's possible that this could lead to heavier use of the database. 